Gwenevere Abriel: We can hear each other now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, excellent. Cool. Alright, is need to open up a note here I got
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing. Um, any nasza recently.
Ramon: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: How recent
Ramon: Nah I'm, um, four days ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was really hoping it was my big idea really thought she'd be great if you just had an allergic reaction to them a walk zone. But, guess not. I really wanted, I wanted it to be that simple for you, you know,
Yeah.
Ramon: I wish the doctors Kenya, find out what's wrong with me. Like I said they've done blood test, all kinds of stuff. Yeah.
Ramon: They don't be
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why I brought it up is because
Gwenevere Abriel: Something like this was happening with someone in that program. And I don't know if you notice the last time we met. I was kind of like asking about the knowledge asking, but I didn't say, Well, here's my idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I hadn't in the back of my mind. I was like, I wanted to see this other clients response because only a day in the past and I wanted to watch
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I'm not, I'm not a medical doctor right. I just want to. I'm witnessing from self report from clients. I wanted to see if it was going to work for this client if the symptoms of vomiting were going to disappear and they did.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I was so excited. I was like, well, maybe it's that simple for Ramon to and we looked up on the internet and you know the first side effect of Suboxone is nausea.
Gwenevere Abriel: For side effect it's listed. So to me, I was like, I wonder if that's it. I wonder if that's it. But like you said, and the doc to. It's not every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it sounds like
Gwenevere Abriel: It's something else. And you think that it really has something to do with the. Is it the amount. Is that what the doctor say it's the amount of marijuana that you're smoking or
Ramon: Does certain type
Ramon: Oh, it's a certain type
Ramon: That makes me like that is what they said. So they advised me just to quit altogether.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you've actually been talking about this for quite a few months, what's, what's your plan with that.
Ramon: Or is there one well as of right now I don't buy any more cigarettes. I don't buy any more weed doesn't mean that I don't still get supplied
Ramon: By a more like I used to.
Gwenevere Abriel: That actually that's a big step.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's not going to be quite as as as it as accessible.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little bit of time that might happen where you're not as soon as you have the thought. It's not right here next to you, you have a little bit of even seconds or minutes to say, well, wait.
Ramon: I gotta wait till tomorrow.
Ramon: So coming out to
Ramon: Like what am I gotta wait till tomorrow because I can't go by in
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay wait till tomorrow. And do you do any delay when tomorrow comes. Do you wait even
Gwenevere Abriel: 90 seconds.
Ramon: Oh, cuz if I wait and I miss out on my smoking session.
Ramon: Then I don't smoke. For the rest of the day. So is that one or none.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you ever remember the nasza
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you're only preoccupied with Oh boy, I'm going to smoke soon. Was there ever any in the middle of dude. Maybe I shouldn't. I'm going to feel sick. Does it isn't ever remembered once that next day is coming
Ramon: From like the last week is been like art. I'm not gonna smoke. I get in the car number like I'm not gonna smoke. I'm not gonna smart keep telling myself but then I end up smoking anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, you know, it's not. It doesn't actually happen like that. Right. There's actually things going on your in your brain doesn't come out of the blue. There's a lot of actual they're habituated you're not thinking about them anymore consciously, but you have to
Gwenevere Abriel: Open something reach for something light something. Look at how many actions. It doesn't just happen. It's just that you're probably going a little like unaware of the habit.
Ramon: That makes sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. We don't just do things.
Gwenevere Abriel: What know you were there. Okay, so let me go finish on talking. I can't do two things at once here. So today's five 513
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at your goals and see if we were doing fairly recently.
Ramon: 13th already when you text me. I said, look,
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it's completely freaky.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's insane weeks go by so fast.
Ramon: Yeah, that is crazy.
Ramon: Week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that what you meant by tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was like, and then I had to check myself. I'm like, yeah, tomorrow, but I realized I had put the data in there. So, so, yeah, that's that that that happen, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So how is Pauline house for pregnancy. How's your pregnancy.
Ramon: Not getting so sick anymore. Um, everything's good. She's getting chunky. Now, I like it.
Cute.
Ramon: Yeah, she's four months.
Gwenevere Abriel: And any. Was she the type because sometimes people do this, they they wait. They wait. They wait. They wait until a certain number of months and then they tell people it was she wanted those moms that she's gonna wait wait wait, or she's telling everybody
Ramon: Oh yeah, we told everybody right away as
Ramon: You found out his word spread
Ramon: She's doing really good to on smoking, like she smoked any way now uh she she's still kind of addicted to cigarettes, but she's doing a lot better. She's almost she cut down a lot on the Suboxone
Ramon: She's doing really good
Gwenevere Abriel: And that helps you feel better.
Yeah.
Ramon: It kind of motivates me to stupid.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what kind of support. Does she have from from her family.
Ramon: Oh, they all they all love her.
Gwenevere Abriel: So her family dynamic and years, there's no parallels. There's no similarities really different, different histories
Ramon: Not really are all our histories to save my family. Her family. I think maybe that's why me and her bonded. But, uh,
Ramon: They're i mean they're doing really good like her sisters were bad at one point, and most of her sisters are doing out of five sisters four of them are doing really good now.
Ramon: There's only one messing up and I mean she goes and hangs out with them now. Like before, I never used to wonder to go hang out with them. No. And now I don't mind because I know they're not doing a dope.
Gwenevere Abriel: So today is the day when we do look at some progress. So let's make a couple even one little statement for each of these goals. I want to work on my anger. What do you want to say about it today.
Ramon: Is in work on
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so where is it still showing up, not quite how you like it.
Ramon: Yeah, no, it's still not quite there. But I'm like I said I'm doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, doing better.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll come back to that one a little later or less just put that down and then we change the target date here, June 16 to June 13 okay I want help with addiction to heroin.
Gwenevere Abriel: The
Ramon: Conquered
Gwenevere Abriel: Conquered
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to be mentally stronger. What do we want to say about that today.
Ramon: Doing better
Ramon: Doing a lot better.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's keep going here.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one is about spirituality and I know you guys, you're not the one that comes up with it. It's part of this car for accreditation. The last time we touch base, um, let me see what I wrote.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most long time ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because I'm looking at, I think, but I do because they've asked me to is because it isn't always part of the conversation with with everyone. Sometimes it's just not part of how people kind of think about the recovery process.
Gwenevere Abriel: You put on your bands. Not at all. Not at all. Right. How much does religion and spirituality support your recovery process or help your, your recovery process. Would you say more times than not you, Mark. Not at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay. And is that how it feels today.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, think about spirituality having
Ramon: To do to you before the coronavirus hit me and my girlfriend and daughter started going to church every Sunday.
Ramon: Almost pretty much every Sunday, we've missed a couple maybe because I was sick. She wasn't feeling well or something. But for like two months we're going every Sunday. And then the coronavirus hated. We're just getting into the rhythm of going and we had to stop going like it was crazy.
Ramon: We started, we started going back during Halloween. So last October. We started going to church and then yeah, to coronavirus hit like two months ago and Eric can just stopped.
Ramon: What they really didn't
Ramon: Pay a big, big part. Like, I don't think, oh, I have to stop for god or gods this god I just
Ramon: I don't know, there's not really a big role in my
Ramon: Recovery.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you like about going every Sunday with your daughter.
Ramon: Oh, it was a pattern. I mean, knows like routine because I like that she like going to Sunday school remind me of when I was kid used to go to church all the time, sing in the choir, all kinds of stuff. But, uh, I liked it. It was cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you like the routine.
Ramon: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So could it be routine elsewhere, or is there anything specifically about it being at church that you like.
Ramon: I'm the
Ramon: I guess the main part of us going to that church was just the same church. My girlfriend used to go to as a child.
Ramon: So, it pretty much went like this one day I said, Baby, we should start going to church. I've been taking about my mom, yada, yada, yada. Let's go to church. She goes, well, let's go to my church that I used to go to my grandma all the time. So we went there and desktop. I went
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you share a little bit about what you what you mean by I've been thinking about my mom.
Ramon: Oh, that's how we used to go to church and stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you like about. Yeah.
Ramon: I'm really asked me like pretty much my whole life I've been with her. She always asked me to go to church, go to church and I never really did ever
So,
Ramon: So maybe we should start
Ramon: So can we go
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, do you know now as an adult why she wanted you to go
Yeah.
Ramon: Why do you think mentally led me to a different life as for sure.
Ramon: Okay, I was stuck with it as a child, I would have came out different
Ramon: But I was very messed up and ahead by time. She got me to me when I was like 11 and I've been all kinds of traumatized by that age, and I was messed up in the head really bad. So I church was the last thing.
Ramon: On my mind. You know what I mean.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I do
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't hear much about those pieces about how
Gwenevere Abriel: You were traumatized. I don't get to hear much of those are you open to sharing maybe one with me today.
Ramon: I got taken away from my mom when I was five.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you remember that.
Ramon: You kind of remember clearly like I remember two, three days leading up to it, and Mary like I remember that's a day that I'll never forget. And I was only five at that time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember the days leading up to it.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Adrian about that, too, is it still in that kind of still
Ramon: I don't really dream about
Ramon: Them situations anymore. I used to a lot, but most of that I've been able to bury it.
Ramon: Literally
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people, when they say that, then the next thing they'll say is, but then I have these re experiences, if it really is where it's in the past.
Gwenevere Abriel: We would know because we would do some inquiry around, for example.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you think about that. You just did what she just thought of when you were five. What was the emotion you felt when that was going on.
Ramon: I don't know, something that I don't want to feel
Ramon: That I don't like talking about or anything.
Ramon: That's really been in me for about 30 years 25 years, actually. And it's just there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yet we're not talking about the emotion, I think, I think you're talking about the memory.
Ramon: All of it just all of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's here's where you and I. If you can hang on for without us getting into a dispute around words. This is where you and I might not see eye to eye. This is where psychological theory comes in.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know how you said it's buried
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I said, Well, I'm wondering if it's processed and you say well you know it's not in my dreams and true.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so I wanted to check in on it and see if that's really true. And I wanted to know. And I say, well, what's the emotion and you know I want to feel it. I want to tell you
Gwenevere Abriel: So as a therapist, we noticed that. And that's a little marker in our heads for Hmm is it really is it really been processed or are the emotions attached to age five being relived anytime. Anything that even looks like. And I'm not saying conscious. This is unconscious stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it resembles
Gwenevere Abriel: Love being taken away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that same feeling being relived is the intensity of it be
Ramon: Oh,
Ramon: My girlfriend's nephew is five years old. Okay.
Ramon: It is a his dad beat his baby sister. She's like four or five months he punched in the face broke her nose fractured her cheekbones broker jaw everything right.
Ramon: We had him. The night before, when he did all that well. I went to the house to go ask, Hey, can I keep him another night and there was cops everywhere. We found out, he'd be the baby. So I told my girlfriend right away, like I didn't
Ramon: It reminded me of me at that age, you know, being a little boy and everything. And I'm taking me away.
Ramon: But that was social workers that took me away. I told my girlfriend center is anti if the mom can get them back, see if we could take them out. I'll help take care of
Ramon: But the emotions when they're the only Tony emotions come is when I talk about what happened to me.
Ramon: How Ansel that's when the emotions start rising when I start getting there. And I started, but when I see things all that puts in the past. I don't get said, I just like, Oh, well that's happened to me. Let me go.
Ramon: And that's, that's how I deal with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me say that back.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I can see similar and find you. I can see events that kind of resemble it but I those feelings which you haven't named yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not activated. I'm not reliving it as if I was five. Again, I can see it from a deck and say logically. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what, let's be helpful. I can be in problem solving mode, right. I'm not completely emotionally hijacked by that memory of my past. I can use logic and reason and problem solve and I'm using all my brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not in my feelings I caught that phrase. Recently I was like, Oh, I'm gonna use it. I like that.
Ramon: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: In my feelings. Um, but, and that might be why you cut me off with the thing is, if you were to tell me the story, which I'm not asking done with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might mean you feel the feelings associated with those memories. Is that right,
Ramon: Oh, I know I will. Like I know because I know how I am anything I've ever held inside of me if I started talking about it. I started breaking down get crazy like
Ramon: That and I hate doing that. I don't like breaking down crying and talking about shit that's in the past already. It's in the past. Oh, well I can't change it, but I could do better in the press.
Ramon: And that's just how I've been since they took me away so
Again,
Gwenevere Abriel: This next part is usually where you and I start to get a little friction
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see if we can do it a little differently this time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it okay that I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: That maybe what you're doing, where you cut yourself off all these years in order to survive in order to be tough and survive really difficult like prison and whatever else, right, in order to survive that life that you have had to completely compartmentalize that history, lock it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is, is it okay that I might view that it might be a doing you a disservice. The Hundred percent lock up. Is it okay that I see it, psychologically, it may have a negative impact on you, that you may not be aware of is it okay that I see it that way.
Ramon: I can't say what's okay what you see here to therapists, you know what you're looking for, you know what to look for.
Ramon: So what you see is what you see, whether it's okay with me. Doesn't even matter, as you know, as a therapist what the problem really is.
Ramon: Like you said, you can throw it out there mentioning I can agree, disagree but you know by how I talk how I act my hand movement I way I look. Whatever. What's really going on. No matter what I say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm not sure.
Ramon: I guess. Yeah, it's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have some best
Gwenevere Abriel: Guesses
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been spending over two years with people with stories, much like what you didn't tell. But you told me a little smidge and read quite a few books.
Gwenevere Abriel: And, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the piece about if I tell the story. I will. You didn't say it this way, but my word would be on unravel all all cry and I'll be emotionally all break down. That was it. I'll break down and I don't want to. That's the one.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's that piece right there that I say hmm
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder if it's still making decisions for Ramon, and he doesn't know it.
Ramon: I think that's why I want to help like my I guess he's my nephew now so I wanted an open, maybe because that was still part of you still there and just to deal with it me doing some about not letting another kid get taken away.
Ramon: You know what I mean. So yeah, maybe, but a lot of my bad decision making. I don't think it has anything to do with it.
Ramon: I bad decision making came from drug abuse period point blank everything I did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so hold that right before drug abuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, there's all these other decisions that are made.
Gwenevere Abriel: A five year old and we're not. I'm not. You don't have to tell another story.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just going to philosophize write a five year old, and had to cope with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Solve problems. Did it instinctual.
Gwenevere Abriel: This little boy had to cope with a highly distressed moment he did the best he could
Gwenevere Abriel: But oftentimes, when the five year old and that tends to be how far back our memory will go it's right at four and five and then they kind of prune at three and two and one. We don't really remember typically that far back. So you've got this five year old self, and this five year old.
Gwenevere Abriel: So solve a problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: With five year old development. Imagine I mean, look how much development happen after age five, my gosh. You're a man now right you have had all this learning experience and your brew finished growing between 27 to 30 finished growing
Gwenevere Abriel: Imagine how underdeveloped. It was at age five it finished growing at 28 let's say imagine how much development.
Gwenevere Abriel: It hadn't had at age five, but it solved the problem. This boy solve the problem. A big stressor.
Gwenevere Abriel: The coping skill that you used to survive that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes what happens is that solution keeps being used at age 678 910
Gwenevere Abriel: On an
Ramon: Online course.
Gwenevere Abriel: At 25 that's right because when we look back and we say, well, what was the coping skill I used it five.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now look, see if he used it at 10
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you use it at 11
Gwenevere Abriel: See if he used it. Right. What do you think that coping skill you used as a little boy was
Ramon: I'm
Ramon: See
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that's the answer to the coping skill that's that's the motivation, you had to do something so
Gwenevere Abriel: Basic things that people do to feel safe psychologically
Gwenevere Abriel: We can use blaming, we can say bad guys social worker.
Gwenevere Abriel: Moms good guy, we can blame. They're all psychology offers all these fancy terms for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm trying to see if you know where yours was we can act out we can fall apart, we can associate we can rage. We can break things we can cry, we can
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh it's endless the different things that we can do. But at age five.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think that you got mad, did you run away and escape or did you kind of disappear from yourself a little bit. In other words, dissociate from the pain.
Ramon: What
Ramon: The only thing I can really think about how I ever handle anything was just don't think
Gwenevere Abriel: compartmentalize okay
Ramon: Just try to forget. Don't think about it and just go about your day like this is your family.
Ramon: And that's how I went to every single foster home. I went to. And then my daughter.
Ramon: You know what I mean. So like, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't think about the past, you just said, This is what is this is what I got. I'm going to work with this.
Gwenevere Abriel: One, I got this is my resource, the
Ramon: Moment, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay.
Ramon: And that's how I still handle things to this day is well let's see how today goes
Ramon: Just go with the flow.
Yeah, that's all.
Gwenevere Abriel: So my question is for me as your therapist, trying to see the relationship between that history that particular style of coping and this intense anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: It continues to persist.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm curious about it.
Ramon: You know, it's crazy. Nada. We're talking about it. I remember when I was locked up. Somebody always asked me, it was like, bro. How come you're always out here playing around, smiling and having fun.
Ramon: When you're locked up in prison, and he wasn't the only one to ask me that. I've had a couple people asked me that was luck and I told every single one of them. You just got to make the best situation on nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh.
Ramon: So smart. I'm just
Ramon: This is how I cope with it. I'm having fun.
Ramon: I know I'm in
Ramon: Prison. I know I can't. But don't think about that. Just go have fun and that's hot. That's, I guess that's how I handled everything my whole life. Now that you're
Ramon: mentioning it just kind of kind of been like that my whole life.
Ramon: So even if, like, Yeah, I've been doing it my whole life.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a powerful approach and it's probably gotten you a lot of good stuff. It's got you survived prison. Right. You didn't let it didn't wipe you out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And in fact it's it's a skill that
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm curious when you learned to do that. Do you have any idea who taught it to how you picked up on that. I just need to be here now appreciate the moment
Ramon: I think
Ramon: What had happened was,
Ramon: Me and my brother both hacker took him away. And I always wanted to be with him. And whenever we push families and foster care for different houses.
Ramon: I always try to follow him, so I would act out to follow him to where he was and social there's would put me there. But when I turned about 10
Ramon: They split us up. And I think at that time is when they go, it might have been even earlier might have been like eight, nine they split us up and that's when I decided I will now make the best situation either what you got.
Ramon: But I was dependent on my brother for a while. From, like, five to eight.
Ramon: But then they separated us because he was a hard head and I would act out. So they said, Yeah.
Ramon: And I think that's where to start.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: A little confused. So help me understand you knew to act out so that they would take you for when you guys were separated if you act it out. You knew they would put you in the home with your brother.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was
Gwenevere Abriel: Your trip but one time it like it didn't work. Like they pulled your heart and no amount of acting out could bring you guys back together.
Ramon: No, I ended up getting a different type of punishment. When I acted out with that family.
Ramon: Like so when I would act out with the other families. What they do is called a social worker, like, hey, you need to come get this kid.
Ramon: The last family after all the other families. I went to the last family was like, we're not calling your social worker will kick your ass.
Ramon: Okay, and so they never called the social worker. So I never went nowhere. I stayed in that house.
Gwenevere Abriel: So from
Gwenevere Abriel: About age eight 910 right in there, you ended up having to stay there for four years.
Ramon: Yeah, for like four years.
Ramon: It was the most of abusive time of my life. Like it was even worse than
Ramon: Getting taken away. It was bad that family was crazy, but uh yeah i think it started when they separated. Me and my brother, this one to start
Gwenevere Abriel: The same time that this massive abuse was happening, the same time you separated from your brother, you were left alone to have to survive without him and he was hard headed. He wasn't there. Was he protecting you. Before somehow at this hardheadedness prior to eight 910 see
Gwenevere Abriel: How was I think it was more like I just wanted to be around him.
Ramon: Because he was the only person I knew
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, older younger just remind me.
Ramon: Older
Gwenevere Abriel: How many years older.
Ramon: I don't know, I can't remember. I know he was the
Ramon: The second oldest out of four.
Ramon: I'm the baby, my sister him and then my older brother.
Gwenevere Abriel: So eight 910. Why don't we pick 10
Gwenevere Abriel: You can tell me. No, I like eight or nine better but just so that I don't have to keep saying eight 910 whichever age right in that moment where you had to stay at that that home for four years and you survived abuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worse than anything before any experience before
Gwenevere Abriel: Where are you
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you call. Like, were you acting out then.
Ramon: I tried, but it didn't work, they just work my ass. And then I quit. I know.
Ramon: I was just scared after that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you
Gwenevere Abriel: Right around 10. Did you do something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like start to drink start to smoke.
Ramon: Know it's funny. I used to masturbate.
Ramon: Okay 678 because of something that happened to me before I went to foster care.
Ramon: And I was my biological mother, but I used to do that. And I think that was another skill for me.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: So that was almost like
Gwenevere Abriel: It increased right around that in that foster home that one. It increased a way to come
Ramon: Yeah a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: Like 10 times a day, kind of thing.
Ramon: Know, like maybe twice.
Okay.
Ramon: But then there was other people in our house that had me doing other things. So it wasn't just like it was just, it was crazy. It's just fucked up house.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where they sexually
Ramon: I think that was the
Ramon: The point, though, another coping mechanism for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So there's the sexualization, and then there's also this piece of. Now how did I know to do that this earlier context of early childhood, even before like it's the reason why your mom was removed. I think right
Ramon: My mom was a drug addict. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so you were around. Was it like one of these
Gwenevere Abriel: Folks that were using drugs they touched you and appropriately.
Ramon: Oh, you're good. You know that
Ramon: I just caught you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What making you tell the story.
Ramon: Yeah, you're good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're you but you have your own limit y'all don't push back. Um, I know you will. You've shown me that you'll let me know. You're done. And you just did you just said, Wait, that's enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Ramon: That's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I really am trying to get the story though, too. So it's not just that it's, it's, um, I want to analyze. I want to understand. Where's the target to try and say, Okay, this could be a target.
Gwenevere Abriel: Memory and then I can look at current day belief systems and then later on, you know, however, we're still sort of heading towards maybe we'll be able to
Gwenevere Abriel: To meet on a weekend or someplace where we can actually do some some more psychoanalytic psycho therapeutic approaches.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll have already in my head. Some targets always get your permission, of course, but then we might be able to do some em, Dr. We might be able to do some empty chair techniques. Okay, so it isn't just to manipulate you, I promise.
I promise you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I genuinely, genuinely came from a place of curiosity I had forgotten about the little baby history. I had forgotten.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're back. We're back up here. I'm Rebecca up here, light, light and easy.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's, I want you to share with me what today was like, though, because it's a little different than what we've been doing in the past. What was today like for you.
Ramon: Oh, it's crazy. The last week has been like really rough for me. I don't know what it is, but I don't have
Ramon: The energy or motivation that
Ramon: I did like last week, I guess, I don't know, like every time I every since Sunday. Every day of the waking up. I don't want to do anything. I just want to later. Like, I don't get up. I don't. And then, but I fought I do the Council five thing and just start to move, so I
Ramon: Do that I do that a lot. And, but once I get moving. I still don't want to be moving like it sucks. I don't know what it is. I want to leave work early
Ramon: Sometimes like I don't know what it is.
Ramon: It sounds
Ramon: To me last week.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you know what Sunday was
Ramon: Mother's Day.
Ramon: I did all kinds of stuff that day. But I didn't want to do anything. I got my girlfriend and some flowers made her breakfast.
Ramon: We cleaned the house went to my grandma's like grilled for like four hours, there's like five mothers there and I saw growth for all of them and made food for all of them. We are aid and everything, but I didn't want to do any of that. It was all my idea.
Ramon: Because they're the women in my life, but
Gwenevere Abriel: But I was detached from it, like we're doing it like a robot like there was no feeling
Ramon: Yeah, it's like I had to do it is, what it was like I have to come to work.
Ramon: You know what I mean.
Ramon: And I really wanted to enjoy that day, but I just was not feeling it. I don't know why. And I've been like that every day since
Gwenevere Abriel: So again, remember
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm out here. I know in your feeling so it's a little easier for me to analyze because I'm out here. And I'm just wondering if it's the same thing I talked about before, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: If a person is detached from one part of themself accidentally we can be detached, which means not in connection with
Ramon: Another part is crazy that you say that because the part of me. Does the test is the, I guess, crazy go to prison part
Ramon: Okay, and then the part of me that's here now is the
Ramon: I don't know how would you put it the robotic part
Ramon: Like, I want to be a father. I do want to family. I go on a sober life. But at the end of the day, deep down in me. I know, I still want to get high.
Ramon: Like I don't even think about it, no more. But I do want to go fuck off. Sometimes I do know what I mean. But I know I can.
Ramon: So it's crazy that you say that because I do feel like there's a part of me missing that people can't see. I mean, I don't want them to see it, you know, but
Ramon: It's just I can be that guide, no more and going to prison was part of me. I'm not good for less eight, nine years. I enjoy going to prison. Like it was cool. I did it for since 2008 I was in and out of prison and county jail, all the way till last year when I or this year, January.
Gwenevere Abriel: helped me to understand what you liked about it if you could even a few things.
Ramon: It was simple.
Ramon: It was really simple, like the only thing I had to worry about it in there was getting up to eat.
Ramon: Because my family didn't take care of me to put money on my book, so I couldn't buy food. So I had to get up to go to the child to eat, but that's the only thing I had to worry about the rest of the day. I played games like a high like I was on street.
Ramon: Women drinking like it was easy. It was easy.
Ramon: And I came out here, and I have so many responsibilities.
Ramon: Yeah, that's where that goal came in, where I want to be mentally stronger.
Ramon: As be able to handle all these responsibilities and not just give up like I used to. I used to be a giver upper
Ramon: On some stuff like when things really got rough and I wouldn't try to work through it. I just give up pluck it but now I gotta fight through it and it's gonna, I don't know, tiring.
Ramon: Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, everything you're saying makes sense and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm trying to
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to see a connection to
Gwenevere Abriel: To this routine.
Ramon: The routine that I have, because I'm used to like routine and prison, I
Ramon: Get up. Eat, drink my coffee brush my teeth get ready to go play handball goal, you know,
Ramon: And I do the same thing here, I get up, I take a shower.
Ramon: brush my teeth, take my medicine. I got my own routine down here, just like I was in prison. The only thing is, I still have other responsibilities I have to take care of. Now, it's not just a morning routine.
Ramon: Or my daily routine that I have to worry about. Okay, let me not. I'm going to play handball from two, three and four to five and going to the gym to play basketball.
Ramon: I can do that. I gotta come to work eight to five and then when I get home. I got do whatever the girl wants me to do I have to take care of whatever my grandma needs me to take care of.
Ramon: You know, my mother. She knew my real mother, but I call her. My mother because I used to date her daughter and their family became really close to me. So now I'm like family today.
Ramon: So I call her. My mother I help her out to. So it's just a lot. They all. It's just a lot for me and i i do it. I've been doing it. I work Saturdays and Sundays like
Ramon: Helping out other people doing stuff that I don't need to be doing instead of being at home, resting, you know, but I do that also to keep myself busy so I don't get
Ramon: It all adds up, it's up in the prison. I don't have to worry about all that at all.
Ramon: But like I said, I'm doing a lot better now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was there any downside to that life.
Ramon: Yeah, definitely. I didn't get kicked off my family. I didn't get to see my loved ones didn't get to eat what I wanted didn't get to do what I wanted. I had to do my morning routine around with the guards wanted me to do.
Ramon: Like it. There's a lot of down I'm around all men.
Ramon: all fucking day
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Ramon: You know what I mean, smelling, they're forced or pissed or
Ramon: Order like there's a lot of downside to it. Absolutely.
Ramon: That's just not cool. DON'T WISH IT UPON nobody
Ramon: But it was just, I was just able to cope with the situation that it's okay to me in my head. You know what I mean. I made. Like I said, I made them. I was always smiling jumping around playing with people like just acted like I was in college, pretty much just like a big college door.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sounds like play is a big piece. And it sounds like that's missing.
Ramon: Definitely, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's missing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm worried I'm glad this is coming up because I agree. I think this this thing you did where I'm you're able to be moment and find the beauty.
Gwenevere Abriel: The sarcasm. The joke. The fun in any given moment is a next level like high order coping mechanism that's not the same thing as sticking your head in the sand pretending like something's not happening, the kind of thing you're talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Is what gets people like Viktor Frankl through the concentration camp.
Ramon: He had no like I
Ramon: I honestly do like I told my girlfriend one time because we're talking about a off switch concentration camp.
Ramon: And I was like, babe. I felt like I could have
Ramon: Did that guy could cope with it. Like, I think I
Ramon: Might have been hungry as skinny as shit but I think I did it. I still have this smiling when they found me.
Ramon: Like it's crazy because I was just talking to her about this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and it is an amazing skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's at a cost. We humans can't do just one, we may think that this one skill is awesome. It's a tool. We've got to have access to other ones.
Gwenevere Abriel: How does it make sense to cope make the most out of something when all around you are all these mothers.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait a minute, why I should be feeling connected
Ramon: To myself. Lot of time.
Ramon: And I said I was around so many goddamn men. I'm around all these women and I feel stressed out, for some reason, I don't, I should be happy. This is what I wanted. I tell myself like I talked to myself like that all the time. I swear to you. I will talk to myself, which
Ramon: Is what you're asking.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you got in the habit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of coping and and reframing and saying,
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't make contact with what's actually going on. If you've been doing that, year after year after year after year after year, over and over and over. When the thing out here is actually good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're already in the habit of not making contact with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just a matter of maybe overdoing a good skill, but just overdoing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: The other skill is the one that you and I were kind of playing with earlier, the one you kind of called me out on the one we feel
Gwenevere Abriel: And that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you're not compensating but you actually make contact with what is no twisting know pretzel know reframing it's
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have a. What about my mom that that might be a sad day for you but you went like a robot, and you did what you were supposed to do, and you did.
Ramon: You say that because maybe that is what it was for me. Honestly, because, yeah, maybe not as you say that
Ramon: Because I was definitely feeling like the first day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, like detached.
Ramon: Oh, you know what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we got we got a frozen screen here. You might come back. Let's see if you come back and hear me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if this Wi Fi connects back
Gwenevere Abriel: Test test test test. Oh, I got you back. Okay, so it is what, what, what was your insight.
Ramon: I was gonna say the same feeling I had on Sunday was the same feeling I had all those years when I was locked up during the holidays Thanksgiving.
Ramon: Halloween Christmas New Year's all came around and that same feeling like it wasn't around my family was around all these weirdos. Like I had that same feeling on Sunday.
Ramon: That same exact fan. I didn't even think about that. So just now, now's the same feeling where I was just like, god damn it away.
Gwenevere Abriel: That
Ramon: Same feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but you don't quite have a name for it yet. Do you
Ramon: Know,
Ramon: I don't know what it is.
Ramon: I bet some love I have for my loved ones are some I don't
Ramon: I don't know what that feeling is, it's a real deep feeling, though.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. And I think those are the ones that are work together. If we can get to naming it
Gwenevere Abriel: And seeing what that is and seeing how you experience it then. Okay, you're making contact with that old history. What's your relationship with it, old history. How is it playing out in current day
Gwenevere Abriel: And is it okay that it plays out is, are you okay with saying, You know what, I know I'm supposed to be happy and grateful and Mother's Day, but I want to cry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's perfectly fine. But you may have layer upon layer upon layer of disapproval for that. But if it turns out it's something like that. Like you're detached and left out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Empty
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't be surprised if it ends up being words like that because you're giving me little stories you're giving me a little bread. Bread Crumbs to understand
Gwenevere Abriel: Why things that everybody should be like, I'm so blessed. I'm so blessed. Look at all these women. This is what I wanted. How you are
Gwenevere Abriel: Numb.
Gwenevere Abriel: And not feeling it. I won't be surprised.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want to go with you and try and find words to describe it and it'll take as long or as little time as it takes. But I'm very interested in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: because knowledge is power. Once you name it. It's like, ooh yeah I can do something with it.
Ramon: That makes sense.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow, Ramon you kicked ass today.
Ramon: Thanks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: You must trust me, Justin.
Ramon: Know you just okie doke. Me is what you
Gwenevere Abriel: Do
Ramon: Oh yeah, you don't need to say stuff I was supposed to say
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it's someone called me this week they said
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you've got all those fancy words and you twist them around. You get me do things. And I'm like, I'm telling you, I don't, I'm not twisting, I am truly curious. I truly am I'm but I'm wondering if you're having the same experience like what she up to she tricking me
Gwenevere Abriel: That I'm looking at okay I'm gonna go to urban Urban Dictionary. I'm with that up.
Ramon: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look it up. All right, let's schedule another time to me to continue this
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, we're probably going to be in June next time we meet
Ramon: Oh my goodness, really.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm serious.
Ramon: This year's going by fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: I knew what I wanted to ask you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I thought you told me you internet at home. Could you create a super early morning
Ramon: Six o'clock.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay, if you're willing to really keep that because it's a huge impact on my day. If you don't show up for it. It completely throws things off if you tell me you can stick with that let's meet Thursday, May 21 at six 8am next Thursday.
Ramon: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got someone I see at 6am on Wednesday. I've got someone I see at 6am on Friday, and you're going to be a Thursday, and I'll text you the night before.
Ramon: You know, I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's God willing, right, I, I hope to do that, but I'm pretty consistent and and we'll get to do something now protect that space. Make sure you know everybody knows this is you kind of, you're going to do some therapy.
Ramon: Know all be they'll all be sleeping, everybody will be sleeping. Nobody gets up till about 730
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. Well, I'm looking forward to it and will kind of take that piece you just did. And let's see if we can do do a little deeper, a little deeper work together.
Ramon: And I might have to get up at five.
Ramon: To get ready for the appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you don't have to get up that early
Ramon: Just the low cuz once I'm up
Ramon: After I'm done with the appointment and I have to go to work. So I have to get ready before the appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what you need to do. You got to even protect it even further back, you have to protect it the night before, so that you don't stay up to 12 or two in the morning.
Ramon: Well, I go to. I'm in bed by eight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's
Ramon: Okay, I'm in bed. Every day I got a job to look at
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, listen, you haven't done this 6am thing. So let's let's go for it.
Ramon: We've done it like once or twice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, maybe 787
Gwenevere Abriel: This is even earlier.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, let's do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, I'm going to see, I'm going to look up what Okey dokey is and if I like it. Then I'm I might say, Okay, we'll do an okie doke on Thursday.
Ramon: Know, okey dokey thing is like tricking somebody to do something they don't want to do or tricking somebody do some period.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to. Okey dokey.
Ramon: Yeah, that's what. Okey doke.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I forget that I stole
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, you go to
YouTube